Executive summaries.
If you get nothing else from this
particular writing portion of this course,
I'm gonna say that this will
get you the most bang for
your buck, let's go for that.
I love this from stripe this was very
strong at the stripe culture and
I brought it with me to snowflake and
I've seen now at snowflake other people
are adopting this because they like it so
much.
At stripe we called it the BLUF
the bottom line up front, and
it's basically you have
this entire doc and
at the top you have two to four
sentences is like here's the problem,
here's why it is, here's our solution.
And there is a strong culture at
stripe if like, if you read that and
you agree with it, you can skip reading
the rest of the Doc and no one will expect
you to have read the rest of the Doc
because there's so many docs at stripe.
It is impossible to read all of them,
right?
So that's why the culture of
the BLUF came around of like,
write something at the top,
if you are fine with what that says, cool,
you're done, stop reading right now.
Now generally, me personally, I'd read the
BLUF if I liked it, I was like, all right,
I'm just gonna skim the rest of the Doc
here make sure there's nothing cool for
me to read here, cool,
no, I'm done, right.
I invite you to undertake this practice
because if you can put this right
at the top and put a lot of emphasis
on it, you'll get your point across
really quickly, this is truly how
you unbury the lead in your docs.
Because, inevitably,
you have to write a bunch of context,
write why you made decisions, why you
chose this product over this product,
why you made this design
choice over this choice.
If you do have to explain
some of those things, but
the BLUF helps you get around that of,
okay,
I'm skipping all context, and I'm going to
tell you exactly what I want to tell you.
So, start doing it in your own docs,
you can call them executive summaries,
at Reddit, we called it the TLDR,
The Too Long Didn't Read,
whatever your company calls it.
I think the general term for
it is executive summary, but
I read it on every Doc that
I expect anyone to read.
So, again, good bolding here,
a good summary is designed to eliminate
the need to redo the rest of the Doc.
So, write the takeaway,
write the absolute just skeleton of
the context needed to get your point
across and then describe the delta.
And when I say the delta,
it's like that's the change set,
that's like we are here now and
we are gonna be here now, what's the gap?
The delta, that's it, that is all I try
and put inside of executive summary.
The best ones are one or two sentences,
I give myself up to four for
really long things, I don't go above four,
unless I go to five,
then I generally try to go back to four,
but sometimes it happens.
Rules are made to be broken.
Okay, how to cheat,
this is actually something that ChatGPT or
Bard or whatever is actually very good at.
These AIs are really good
at taking a long doc and
summarizing it into a couple of Docs.
I use Notion because that's what
Snowflake typically uses internally, and
what's cool about that is you can just
say, Notion AI, write me a summary.
And generally it writes
you like a 80% good one,
I spend a little bit of time getting
that 80% to 100% good and then I'm done.
In other words,
definitely write your summary last,
do not start with your summary because you
don't know what you're gonna write yet.
And it is the most important part of your
Doc because that's the part that you're
hoping everybody will read.
But this is definitely
something that can help.
Don't put company secrets
in the ChatGPT we
don't know what those people
are doing [LAUGH] and
most of your companies will be very dodgy
that is okay I got this out of ChatGPT.
There are some that you can run locally
Llama is one of them that you can actually
run locally on your computer.
If you'd have something like that,
and a lot of products have a built in,
like Notion, but I'm sure some
of the other ones do as well and
Microsoft has it built
into theirs as well.